the UN Security Council is due to vote
on a resolution calling for the
suspension of hostilities in Gaza the
vote has already been delayed twice this
week as diplomats have been negotiating
with the United States the wording of
the resolution earlier this month
Washington vetoed a resolution calling
for a ceasefire the latest draft calls
on the parties of the conflict in Gaza
to comply with their obligations under
international law regarding the
protection of civilians it also calls
for Urgent and extended humanitarian
pauses and corridors throughout the Gaza
Strip for a sufficient number of days to
enable full Rapid Safe and unhindered
humanitarian access additionally it
calls for the immediate and
unconditional release of all hostages
let's bring in our correspondent Gabriel
elizando he's joining us live from the
UN headquarters in New York and it's
been delayed for days Gabe that gives us
an idea of just how contentious the
wording of this resolution has been
doesn't it
yeah it really does and it just shows
you how serious everyone is taking this
resolution given the situation and the
humanitarian disaster really catastrophe
that's playing out in Gaza right now uh
things are moving very fast here at the
United Nations I'll start off by saying
that let me just tell you initially
what's going on right now the uh
Security Council Members uh for the last
half hour or a little bit more than that
have been behind closed doors and what's
called
closed a closed session they've been
trying to hammer out some sort of
agreement that the US uh can agree to
basically on this draft resolution that
has now been on the table for several
days now uh that closed door meeting we
believe has ended and now we're waiting
to find out if the ambassadors come back
into the security council chambers and
hold a vote or not that is what we're
waiting for literally at this very
minute right now the key here is not
only the language is the key but the
there's really two key Parts there's a
suspension of hostilities that was the
first issue that the US was kind of
grappling with would they accept that
and the second is now this monitoring
mechanism We Believe could be a point of
contention in the uh draft resolution it
calls for a monitoring mechanism
essentially in short what that means is
it would mean empower the United Nations
uh uh to facilitate the entry of Aid
into Gaza and then facilitate its
distribution essentially taking power
away from the Israelis on that part
there so clearly the US has some
problems with this and if you're asking
yourself why this is important is
because the US can veto this and then it
would uh stop any further movement on
this resolution of course they're one of
five countries with veto Power number
one but number two why are these
negotiations dragging on so long the
answer is we believe because this is so
high-profile because the language is so
important because it would is a binding
by international law if it passes we
believe that the US uh ambassador to the
UN is having to go to Washington and
ultimately any language uh would have to
be signed off on by the White House and
so even if they perhaps agree to
something here at the UN meaning they
mean the US to a draft they've then got
to go to Washington We Believe to get
sign off at the very highest of levels
and that takes clearly takes some time
but it also shows you how important
every little word is in this resolution
and lastly I'll say uh this resolution
has overwhelming support we do think
that it would pass with the nine votes
needed again it now comes down to the
United States would they abstain and let
this go forward or would they veto it
that's the big question and Gabe we are
hearing from the United Nations that the
security Council that vote has been
delayed to Thursday was supposed to take
place on Monday it is now supposed to
take place on Thursday uh let's listen
in to what's happening at the security
Council I think everyone wants to see a
resolution that has impact and that is
uh implementable on the ground and there
are some discussions going on about how
to make that
possible Madam Ambassador or the
discussions going on uh between Hamas
Egypt and Qatar uh
impacting the decision to delay and
could that change the text of the
resolution uh those negotiations have
been ongoing stopping and starting since
the start uh of this conflict following
the seventh of October attack on Israel
those conversations will continue uh and
they have not been raised in Council
liberations they are not part of our
discussions on the text that is
responding to a humanitarian crisis that
we have seen in Gaza and with the
backlog of humanitarian Aid not able to
reach uh Palestinian civilians on the
ground in Gaza that is the response that
has been drafted by the council as a
result in response to that
so I mean compared to yesterday or the
day before are you more optimistic today
I believe that capitals that have
equities in this file are engaging at
the highest level of diplomacy to reach
a text that will have impact on the
ground diplomacy takes time it means uh
evolving conversations and people are
giving it their attention at the highest
levels of the capitals that have
leverage on this so I think from that
sense um you have to be optimistic in
diplomacy otherwise we wouldn't all come
into this building every day in that
sense I am optimistic but in another
sense if this fails then we will
continue uh to keep trying because we
have to keep trying there's too much
suffering on ground uh for the council
to continue to fail on this and we
haven't failed we have a resolution 2712
we need to build on that resolution and
I hope we will also adopt a humanitarian
resolution that responds to the crisis
on ground one more question please about
your position uh in your National
capacity about the role that the UN
should take in monitoring uh the
implementation of the resolution do you
think that this should be a un uh uh
Mission or the UN should take should
monitor the implementation or other
parties I think that the UN has one of
the most trusted brand names globally it
has credibility and it has experience on
the field so I think the UN is the the
the organization that we have for
implementation and I think countries in
the region have come to the UN asking
for their support in the face of this
crisis so this is a resolution that was
borne out of a conversation uh and
discussions at the ministerial meeting
in Riad it is a Arab OIC discussion
about the immense burden that Regional
countries and partners are facing in
terms of scaling up humanitarian Aid
into Gaza and in particular Egypt which
is why Security Council Members many of
us incoming and present went to the
rafah border crossing with Gaza last
week and saw firsthand thousands of
trucks and the convoys uh leading into
Gaza that are unable to go in medical
equipment that is unable to go in
ambulances are unable to evacuate
wounded people we met with Wounded
children in the al-arish hospital the
Egyptians are doing a phenomenal job on
the border of Gaza to try and support
the Palestinian people but this is this
is also fundamentally uh needed to be
supported by the United Nations and by
all regional and international Partners
so uh I think we do trust the UN to have
a role here thank you so much and I
appreciate your appreciate your patience
regardless of what this diplomacy yields
will this still go to a vote this this
will go to a vote the the uae's pen
holder will bring this resolution to a
vote and we hope for a resolution that
has impact on the ground and is
adopted do you expect 10: a.m. expect in
the
morning so we have been listening there
to the United Arab Emirates ambassador
to the United Nations uh the United
Nations security Council Lara nus and
she was speaking about that un Security
Council resolution that we have been
expecting a vote on since Monday and we
have have just heard that it's been
delayed to Thursday now she spoke of the
backlog of humanitarian Aid that's
unable to reach people in Gaza this
resolution is voting on is calling for a
suspension of hostilities in Gaza and
also on speeding up and expanding
humanitarian assistance into Gaza let's
bring our correspondent Gabriel elisondo
back in he's been listening in he's live
for us at un head Head Quarters in New
York and uh the UAE ambassador of course
the United Arab Emirates has sponsored
this resolution it is the only Arab
member of the 15 member Security Council
Gabe and uh Miss nbe was said that she
is optimistic about this resolution but
if it fails that they will continue with
their efforts because there is too much
suffering in
Gaza yeah that's right there are a
couple things she said there that were
really key at the end she was asked will
there be a vote and she said yes there
will be a vote at some point will that
vote be on Wednesday it appears that's
not the case now it's being delayed
again we're we're told until Thursday
she also said that uh uh there's been
engagement at the highest levels of
diplomacy as I was mentioning before
when I was speaking to a few moments ago
I was saying how we believe that at
least with the US side of this they're
having to get sign off from the highest
levels in Washington DC even higher than
the Secretary of State perhaps going all
the way to the president uh Joe Biden
having to sign off on this resolution on
how the US would vote here at the
security Council uh so it's clear now
that both sides and when I say both
sides let's be clear what I mean by both
sides is you have the US clearly on one
side and you have the majority of the
security Council Members on the other
side that want to vote and that want to
vote for this draft resolution four
pages as it's written now when I say the
other side I mean the United States that
is clearly uh the country that is
holding this up and clearly the country
that is asking for delay after delay
after delay to try to find some sort of
compromise on a resolution they can vote
for I do not think the US wants to use
its veto power it already has vetoed two
two other Security Council resolutions
one on October 18th that called for a
humanitarian pause another veto by the
US on December 8th that called for an
immediate humanitarian ceasefire if the
US was to veto another Security Council
resolution on Gaza especially this one
that is entirely focused on humanitarian
efforts on scaling up humanitarian Aid
into Gaza for the people that need it
the most I think it's very well
understood that the US would lose a lot
of Goodwill uh not only in the security
Council but in the world more broadly
that is pretty much well accepted so I
think that the US is being very cautious
now and when I mean cautious I mean
that's why this is having to go up to
the highest levels of government at the
us because they know the ramifications
of vetoing this but they also know the
US that they are Israel's main Ally here
and they have been in lock step they
meaning the United States has been in
lock step with Israel since October 7th
these are the political Dynamics The
Diplomatic dynamics that you're seeing
played out being played out in real time
right now in the United Nations security
Council but to recap what you just heard
from the Ambassador the the the UAE
ambassador to the UN there is she is
expecting a vote on this uh but now it's
being delayed until at least Thursday
and she's confirming that there is still
uh negotiations at the highest levels
from the main countries involved in
negotiating this draft resolution right
Gabe thank you very much for that
Gabriel Alando live at the UN
headquarters in New York